# Target_Sales_Prediction
## Target Store Sales Prediction – Objective&amp; Deliverables Content: 
You are provided with historical sales data for 45 stores located in different region search store contains a number of departments. The company also runs several promotional markdown events throughout the year. These markdowns precede prominent holidays, the four largest of which are the Super Bowl, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas. The weeks including these holidays are weighted five times higher in the evaluation than non-holiday weeks.   
## Objective &amp; Deliverables Problem description: 
One challenge of modeling retail data is the need to make decisions based on limited history. Holidays and select major events come once a year, and so does the chance to see how strategic decisions impacted the bottom line. In addition, markdowns are known to affect sales the challenge is to predict which departments will be affected and to what extent.
## Recommended Project Steps &amp; Guidelines: 
1. Understand the data variables properly. Check the variable description to understand the data properly. 
2. Clean the data: Clean the data, that is, fill the missing values (if any), treat the outliers (or odd values), etc. Ensure each variable’s data is as per the nature of the variable (e.g. – Date field should contain only date values – can extract year, month and day of the week, and numeric column should be formatted as numeric, etc.). 
3. Conduct EDA (Exploratory Data Analysis) on the cleaned Data: Summarize, explore the data and then decide your strategy. Make note of any important assumptions that you make. 
4. Uni-variate and Bi-variate Analysis: Check the distribution of independent variables and also compare them with the dependent variable. 
5. Feature Engineering: Create new meaningful features based on the existing features by applying some aggregation functions on them. 
6. Hypothesis Testing: Hypothesis testing in statistics is a way for you to test the results of a survey or experiment to see if you have meaningful results. You should give a brief summary of the data and a summary of the results of your statistical test. In the discussion, you can discuss whether your initial hypothesis was supported or refuted.  TARGET STORE SALES PREDICTION  
7. Identify the most important variables (or data parameters) that affect the final decision: Identify the impact of each variable on the final result graphically (correlation / scatter plots, regression plots, etc.). Keep those variables that affect the final outcome. 
8. Develop and Validate Samples: Divide samples into 2 parts: Development Sample (70%) &amp; Validation Sample (30%). Build your analysis model using the Development Sample, and validate it on the validation sample and then predict on test sample. 
9. Model Building: Analyze the dependent variable and decide which technique out of regression or classification to use and hence build the model. 
10. Improving model accuracy: We know that machine learning algorithms are driven by parameters. These parameters majorly influence the outcome of learning process. So, find the optimum value for each parameter to improve the accuracy of the model and repeat this process with a number of well performing models. 
11. Model Comparison: Comparing the each model with other similar models and then choose that model which give highest accuracy. But it is not necessary that higher accuracy models always perform better (for unseen data points). So, find the right accuracy of the model, you must use cross validation technique before finalizing the model.
